Tutorial: How to set up Angular analytics, feature flags, and more (#6935)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/angular-analytics.md

---
title: How to set up Angular analytics, feature flags, and more
date: 2023-10-16
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
featuredImage: ../images/tutorials/banners/tutorial-14.png
tags: ["configuration", "feature flags", "events"]
---

Angular is one of the original JavaScript web app frameworks and remains a popular choice for building them. To make your Angular app as good as possible, you need tools like [analytics](/docs/product-analytics), [session replay](/docs/session-replay), and [feature flags](/docs/feature-flags). PostHog provides these tools and is easy to set up in Angular.

This tutorial shows you how to set up the tools PostHog provides by creating a basic Angular app, adding PostHog, and then using it to capture events and manage feature flags.

## Creating our Angular app

Angular has a powerful CLI we rely on for this tutorial. Install it by running `npm install -g @angular/cli` in your terminal.

Once installed, create a new Angular app (with routing) and go into its folder. 

```bash
ng new angular-ph --routing
cd angular-ph
```

### Adding pages

> To show the basics of PostHog, we create a simple app, just two pages and a link to move between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To show the basics of PostHog, we create a simple app – just two pages and a link to move between them.
```

> To start with creating this app, generate home and about components using the Angular CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start with creating this app, first generate `home` and `about` components using the Angular CLI.
```

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: '',
    component: HomeComponent
  },
  {
  path: 'about',
  component: AboutComponent
  }
];

@NgModule({
  imports: [RouterModule.forRoot(routes)],
  exports: [RouterModule]
})
export class AppRoutingModule { }
```

Remove the placeholder code from `app.component.html`, leaving us with only the router outlet.

```bash
<router-outlet></router-outlet>
```

Now, we can run `ng serve` in our terminal and go to [`http://localhost:4200/`](http://localhost:4200/) to see our basic app.

![In-app video](../images/tutorials/angular-analytics/app.mp4)

## Installing PostHog

With our app set up, it’s time to install and set up PostHog. To start, install the [JavaScript web SDK](/docs/libraries/js):

```bash
npm i posthog-js
```

In `main.ts`, initialize PostHog using your project API key and instance address. You can get both in your [project settings](https://app.posthog.com/project/settings).  

```js
import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';

import { AppModule } from './app/app.module';
import posthog from 'posthog-js'

posthog.init(
  '<ph_project_api_key>',
  {

>     api_host:'<ph_instance_address>'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    api_host:'<ph_instance_address>' // usually 'https://app.posthog.com' or 'https://eu.posthog.com'
```

  }
)

platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule)
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
```

> Once set up, go back to your app, refresh, and PostHog begins autocapturing events. This includes button clicks, pageviews, pageleaves, and more. It also starts recording sessions if you enable those in [your project settings](https://app.posthog.com/project/settings).

Reviewer: not 100% sure if this hyperlink is needed
```suggestion
Once set up, go back to your app, refresh, and PostHog begins autocapturing events. This includes button clicks, pageviews, pageleaves, and more. It also starts [recording sessions](/docs/session-replay) if you enable those in [your project settings](https://app.posthog.com/project/settings).
```

```

Afterwards, in `home.component.ts`, import PostHog and add the `onClick()` function with the `posthog.capture` call. Also, you can include a `button_name` property in the capture and use it for filtering later.

```js
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import posthog from 'posthog-js'

@Component({
  selector: 'app-home',
  templateUrl: './home.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./home.component.css']
})
export class HomeComponent {
  onClick() {
    posthog.capture(
      'home_button_clicked', 
      { 'button_name': 'home' }
    )
  }
}
```

When users click this button, PostHog captures a custom `home_button_clicked` event.

## Setting up and using feature flags

PostHog enables you to use feature flags to control the release of features and code. We can use one to control the text on our button.

To start, go [feature flags tab](https://app.posthog.com/feature_flags) in PostHog and click "New feature flag." Add a key (like `test-flag`) and set the release conditions to 100% of users. Add any other details, and then press "Save."

![Feature flag](../images/tutorials/angular-analytics/flag.png)

> To implement our flag, we must change the `home.component.ts` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, to implement the flag in our app we must change the `home.component.ts` file as follows:
```

> To start, go to the [feature flags tab](https://app.posthog.com/feature_flags) in PostHog and click "New feature flag." Add a key (like `test-flag`) and set the release conditions to 100% of users. Fill in any other details as you like, and then press "Save."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start, go to the [feature flags tab](https://app.posthog.com/feature_flags) in PostHog and click "New feature flag." Name your key (like `test-flag`) and set the release conditions to 100% of users. Fill in any other details as you like, and then press "Save."
```

- Add the `buttonText` as a variable in our `HomeComponent` class.

- Import `ChangeDetectorRef` and use a `constructor` to set it up as a service.

- Use the `ngOnInit()` lifecycle hook to check the flags.

- In `ngOnInit()`, wait for flags to load with `posthog.onFeatureFlags` then check our flag with `posthog.isFeatureEnabled('test-flag')`.

> - If enabled, change the `buttonText` value and use the `changeDetector` to update the variable.

Reviewer: Was quite hard to follow this section. maybe its because the order is weird.

Shouldnt it be:

Fetch flag, change button?

Currently its:
Create variable for button
Fetch flag
Change button text.

I think the text could be clearer too

Author: Rewrote

> - If the flag is enabled, change the `buttonText` state and use the `changeDetector` to update the template with the new value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the flag value and update the `buttonText` state and template accordingly. 
```
